
= solaris-contents

Author:: Martin Carpenter
Email:: mcarpenter@free.fr
Copyright:: Copyright (c) Martin Carpenter 2011


== About

The solaris-contents gem helps with the manipulation of SunOS and Solaris
contents entries for SysV packages. Note that the manual page contents(4)
states that this interface is declared as unstable although practically
speaking this is unlikely to be an issue.

     As    shown    above,    the    interface    stability    of
     /var/sadm/install/contents  is Unstable (see attributes(5)).
     It is common practice to use this file in a read-only manner
     to  determine which files belong to which packages installed
     on a system. While this  file  has  been  present  for  many
     releases  of  the  Solaris operating system, it might not be
     present in future  releases.  The  fully  supported  way  to
     obtain  information  from  the installed package database is
     through pkgchk(1M). It is highly recommended  that  you  use
     pkgchk rather than relying on the contents file.

This prescient comment is coming true: Solaris 11 moves to a new packaging
format (IPS) and although contents(4) remains on the system and in the
manual pages it appears to be unused.

This gem only handles "new style" contents entries. In extensive testing
we have not seen any old style entries (these are lines that do not
begin with a forward slash, /).

See Errata below from where Oracle's specification in contents(4)
differs from reality.

== Examples

=== Read and interpret contents(4)

    require 'solaris/contents'

    Solaris::Contents.read.each do |c|
      puts c
      puts c.ftype
      puts c.path
      puts c.rpath
      puts c.install_path
      puts c.packages.inspect
    end
      => /bin=./usr/bin s none SUNWcsr
         s
         /bin
         /usr/bin
	 none
	 [ "SUNWcsr" ]
         ...

== Errata

Testing against a corpus of ~150 contents files revealed the following
discrepancies from the specification in the manual pages for contents(4)
and pkgmap(4).

=== Multiple packages per entry

Multiple packages are only explicitly stated for ftype d in contents(4).
Numerous counterexamples.

=== Installation class name length

pkgmap(4) states that the class name should be "no longer than 12 
characters". Counterexample: "pkcs11confbase".

=== Comments
pkgadd(1M) writes comments to the tail of the contents file:

    # Last modified by pkgadd for SMClintl package
    # Tue Sep 20 21:57:16 2011

If the Solaris::Contents#from_line constructor is fed a line like this
(or a blank line) then it will return nil.

